## 2022 05 02

### Table of contents

+ [Monthly assignments](#monthly-assignments)

    + [Monthly essay](#monthly-essay)

    + [Code](#code)

    + [Passionate Programmer](#passionate-programmer)

+ [Weekly assignments](#weekly-assignments)

    + [Weekly essay](#weekly-essay)

    + [Pretotypes](#pretotypes)

## Monthly assignments

### Monthly essay
During this first month I enrolled in the course called ''Learning how to Learn'' which I enjoyed a lot, it goes trough various techniques for getting the most out of the material that you are studying, It showed me a lot about the bad habits that I had specially how to deal with procrastination, and why it happens, I used the pomodoro technique while doing most of my activities and I notices an increase in my overall productivity.

I started giving lighting talks to other apprentices and mentors, I learned a lot while doing this activity, because it's not something I used to do, and it has helped me improving my communication skills and understand that other people might no be familiar witch certain topics, the feedback was very helpful to help me notice this kind of details, although I didn't like my last lighting talk, I wasn't very familiar with that topic and it showed.  

We also learned a lot about team work, the codejam exercises were my favorite activity of the month, I really liked working on these type of exercises, the most challenging part was learning other programming languages, and coordinating with other apprentices to get the job done on time.

### Code

I found this book very interesting, it explains a lot about how computers work internally, and how they handle information, it shows that they are very complex systems and gives a better understanding about computers in general.

Back in college I took around 3 courses involving digital systems design, and I didn't understand why my degree involved that type of courses, it all made sense when I took a computer architecture class, I was never explained how was I supposed to use the circuits beyond basic projects, but in than class the main goal was to design a processor from scratch, and many of the concepts that I have learned before clicked, it was very amusing for me to understand how computers work at a very low level, I think that if I have read this book before taking all my electronic courses I will have gone trough the classes with a more optimistic type of mindset. 

I have studied most of the content of this book before, by far my favorite part was the begging where I learned a lot about the story of morse code and the telegraph, I also remembered key concepts as latches or the multiple representations of information such as numbers with different bases. 

I don't know if this book is hard to understand for people who have no previous knowledge of certain topics, because I felt like it was a chore to read trough some explanations, but I also feel that certain topics can't be simplified, and the book does an overall good job in trying to explain these key concepts for understanding computers. 

I would recommend this book for everyone who wants to have a deeper understanding about computers.

### Passionate Programmer 

I didn't enjoy the majority of this book, I think that the title is a little bit misleading because it focuses more on the career part, I didn't feel very inspired reading the first half of the book because while it has some helpful advise like been the worst person of the band, most of the tips are given from the perspective of a manager rather than a programmer, it encourages things that benefits the company rather than the programmer who is doing the job.

There are lots of analogies between the work of a programmer and a musician, I think this is very interesting since most of the advice this book gives can be applied to other fields besides software development. 

The last part of the book is very focused on the career of a person and I have to admit that many of tips were eye opening for me because I don´t have any experience working as a developer and the advice given I think will help me avoiding some mistakes that I would have made If I didn't read this book before.

Overall I wouldn't recommend reading the book, I was expecting something else to get motivated, at the beginning of the year I read a more inspiring book called 'Maters of DOOM' which I really liked because I felt more in love with programming, and I guess that I was expecting something similar with Passionate Programmer so I was let down.

## Weekly assignments

### Weekly essay

By far the most important thing I learned this week was that software developers need to listen to their clients very carefully, understanding and answering the questions they ask is key for having good communication.

I discovered more concepts related to quantum computing that made me think a lot about the possibilities that this new field can bring to the table, specially in terms of computing power, since things such as cryptography are gonna become obsolete, it's very interesting to me that this concept was around many years ago, I first heard of this topic back in 2018, but still I can't understand the details about it, and as I discovered in the videos many of the professionals that are somewhat familiar with quantum computing concepts don't know why things behave the way they behave in the quantum realm, because it really doesn't make sense, so it's a little bit of relief to hear that.

I really liked the idea behind pretotyping, because it allows for experimentation and failure, testing ideas is very important, because as we've seen in past weeks failing leads to learning new things, and also is a very intelligent way of discarding ideas that are not worth pursuing.  

###  Pretotypes

#### First Idea

Description: Sometimes it's very difficult to find someone confident, honest and responsible for a job, like plumbing, construction, mechanical or electric installations. Having a website for an easy search and rating their services could be very useful.


Hypothesis: Having a website whit a list of workers, his rates and can make an appointment whit someone on the page.

Experiment description: Build a simple web site like the yellow pages' and see the amount of traffic.

Validation: If the traffic on the web page is huge or big enough, we consider building the app with all the features.

Results: The experiment reveals a considerable amount of traffic, big enough to proceed with the next phase of the development.

#### Second Idea

Description: There are many abandoned dogs in animal shelters who are looking for an owner who loves them. Making the process for their adoption easier by using an app is key for them to get a new home.

Hypothesis:  Animal shelters need more exposure to get their dogs adopted more easily, humans are lazy by design so we need an easier way to adopt dogs, this new way of adopting should require minimal effort. An app would be ideal for solving this problem.

Experiment description: We launched a survey to see what’s the most popular opinion regarding the adoptions of animals to see if building an app is the right solution.

Validation: If people are interested in the idea of having this new app, maybe we could go a step further and start developing the app.

Results: We discovered that although people had interest in having dogs as pets around 50 % are not interested in adoption. 
