## 2022 04 11

During this week most of the things that struck with me were soft skills related, starting out with the lighting talk presentation which taught me a lot about team work and organization.

First we messed up by wrongly trying to make a schedule for each presentation without investigating what would be the best possible date and time in which every mentor had available time, nonetheless with the recommendations they gave us we were able to come up with an appropriate solution as a team, by making an effective use of the tools available at our disposal and by communicating with both team members and mentors, we were able to elaborate a better proposal that was accepted at the end.

I didn't lived up to expectations during my presentation, in part because I felt a little bit unprepared, I took the feedback in a very positive way because now I know what my weaknesses are, and I will take into considerations many of the tips Carlos gave me to improve next time. I think that another person point of view is very important because while evaluating he can easily identify aspects that can be improved, that I might not be able to see because my personal bias.
 
> Scar tissues make relationships wear out 

I think this quote is very accurate since it depicts a fact about relationships.

Most of the time we spend with a person contributes in establishing a relationship, the longer it lasts the more we have to put attention into the details that can make the relation to wear out before it's too late, I think that for good lasting relationships people need to be more communicative about the things that can wear the relationship, and try to work on the problem so that it stops.

About living in autopilot mode I think that it is true that we are too distracted trying to appear busy instead of achieving anything concrete, modern society has unrealistic depictions about what a person should do, I don't have any problem working hard for obtaining a goal, because it helps on the development of a person, the problem is in trying to show to other people how productive you are trying to compete with other people rather than doing it for yourself. 

I once read that we are in and endless run for happiness, perusing always a goal that is going to get us closer to our goal, but life runs out, and it's to short to always be caring about the future and not in the present, because in a way we are not living, just working on a better future, our mind doesn't enjoy the things that are in this moment, and that could be bad four our health, because if we are not able to reach our goal it might lead to frustration, and suddenly all the work that we put effort into is gonna become meaningless, and all the time spent can not be recovered. 

We must ask what's the most important thing we can do today and then do that first, also I believe that it is very important to have a balance between the things that you have to do and the things you want to do. In a perfect world we should only care about the things that we want to do, but in reality we also have responsibilities, and these might not be pleasant activities to do, but must be done anyways, so there must be a balance, and we should be able to put ourselves in a situation in which we have more enjoyable activities to do in our daily life. 

I do believe that it's better to do something partially right than not do anything at all, because it shows that you are somewhat capable of doing that activity even if it's not finished, and by not doing anything you aren't at least attempting or trying to show some interest, also by doing you could learn new things that can make you improve in your next iteration of the activity. 

I've heard before the concept that there aren't any new ideas, since any ideas are made of other ideas, this concept is especially true for cinema, where every story has been told one way or another, what makes a movie special and stand upon others is the way the story is told. We have examples of movies that take inspiration from many iconic movies but still are its own thing like 'Star Wars' or 'Kill Bill'. The same applies to other fields, but the must important thing is to put ideas into action, because an idea is worthless without execution. 

It's very important that we are able to defeat our biggest fears when coming up with new ideas, not all our ideas are gonna be great but we must remove unnecessary assumptions so that there aren't any constraints and we can be more creative, 

We constraint our ideas, as you remove unnecessary assumptions, including fears, your solutions start become more creative. The best way to remember ideas is to record them in some place, because you might forget your own ideas.

We are often told that we need to work smart rather than working hard, but I have never considered to do both, by doing this we can obtain great results.

By far the most interesting activity I worked on this week was the set-up of this blog, I enjoyed a experimenting with all the tools, and my objective was to make this as minimalist as possible, using markup language and github pages.

I can conclude that ideas without execution are worthless, that soft skills are very important for solving problems as a group, because it's easier to achieve a goal if we share the same objective and that there are many myths about creativity and about how productive a person is, the most important part is that people find a balance between tasks that we enjoy doing and tasks that we have to do.  

[Return](../../index.md)