## 2022 04 11

### Creating an user based Recommender
This week was very tough, the most exiting thing (and also the most difficult) was the java exercise which consisted in completing a missing pice of code in this [repo](https://github.com/Nearsoft/academy-exercises). I got confused a lot with the maven installation, but thanks to Adalberto's advice I used homebrew for making the installation process a lot easier, I learned that the set-up environment part of a project is very time consuming if not familiar with the technologies, by getting thrown at a project with no previous knowledge forces you to find solutions on the internet, but also is a great opportunity for learning new concepts, I don't like java, nonetheless ideas are the most important part for solving a problem since the language is only a tool for making those ideas come to reality. To be honest I didn't fully understand how the recommendations algorithm worked, and I only used as a black box, I think that this is something that can be applied to real word projects since you don't need to understand all the parts of the code as long as you reach your objective, and can make a functional piece of software.

### Test Driven Development
+ Add test, get it to fail and code to pass the test
+ Remove duplication

I think that this is an interesting approach to software development, building little parts of code and testing them and making incremental improvements to the code, however it's important to have a general idea of the requirements of the application so that we don't come up with future problems due to a bad design.

This approach was very important for this week's java exercise, because I focused on the tests that my program wasn't able to pass, and after I solved an specific problem I jumped straight into the next test, fully knowing that previous missing implementations or bugs where fixed or programmed. I agree that it's important to have another person to be working on finding edge test cases that you might have overlooked, because another person experience and perspective can be very valuable, in my experience in competitive programming when someone has a solution the easiest way of finding if a solution is correct or not is if another person in the team that had to do nothing with the solution can come up with an edge case that might make the algorithm not work correctly. 

### Unit testing
+ Low level and focuses on a small part of the code
+ Units are situational things

- Sociable Tests rely on other units
- Solitary Tests are isolated 

One of the worst programming practices I have is that I use the the ```print``` statement for debugging, but this approach of unit testing with the right tools is far more effective to use, so in the future I will consider learning one of this tools to apply this concept on my future software projects. 

### Xunit
I've heard about this framework before, the most important thing that I take from this lecture is the existence of a CppUnit for C++ which is the language that I currently use the most, and with this I'll be able to apply the concept of unit testing to my software projects.

### Mocks aren't stubs


### Java Build tools
Dependency management is a big part of today's automation landscape, in maven is very easy to define dependencies, we could use that knowledge for this week's exercise.

On the versions range part is very important to either get the newest version of the library or work around potential trouble.

I din't have any idea that tools for automating this process existed, but it really makes a lot of sense since many programmers focus on time efficiency.

### VIM

This is my favorite text editor, I learned VIM back in 2019. I think that it has a big learning curve because we are used to a different way of interacting with computer nowadays, but there are many things that just make sense after working with the editor for a while.

By far the mos useful command is 

```
:q
```

because a lot of programmers when trying vim for the first time don't have a clue on how to close the editor. 

VIM is very useful in environments where you don't have access to a graphic interface like servers, and it's very handy when using UNIX based systems because it comes preinstalled or you are just one command away of its installation, I have used it in ACM-ICPC competitive programming competitions where there are very few editors available in the computers. I also like the idea that for some vim is a way of life, you can use the key bindings in other pieces of software like the web browser.

Regarding the VIM customization I like to keep things very simple and only have the syntax, indentation and number options activated, I don't use any plugins at all since for most of my needs vanilla VIM it's enough.

### Git
Version control systems are very important in software development, because it can keep a log of the changes, also it allows people to work on different branches of the same project etc. It can answer the following questions:

+ Who wrote this module ? When? Why?

Git uses graphs for modeling the history of commits, and they can be identified by their hashes, so the repos care a combinations of objects and references.

I think that mastering git is very useful in software development, because it's a tool that reduces a lot of the headaches that come with the organization and versions of a project. I have been using git mostly for school projects, not in a real life environment, so I think it will be a challenge to work as a team in a project using this tool. For improving my git skills I've decided to use it for this blog.


### Pale Blue Dot
I watched this video, but I wasn't able to understand the meaning to be honest. Maybe that we are insignificant in the context of the universe. 

### The Future of programming
Computers change fast, people's ideas don't. There is resistance to new ways of doing things.

1. Direct implementation of data
2. Goals and constraints
3. Spatial representation 
4. Concurrent 

We should be open to new ways of thinking, and not be stopped by constraining ideas.

### Inventing on Principle
Ideas take on lives as their own, and creation is about discovery, that makes ideas to develop in ways that would be impossible, because then you are able to trie ideas as you think of them. Creators need to be able to see what they're doing otherwise they're designing blindly. Ideas need an environment in which they can grow, otherwise they might be lock down in the head of a person, or not be able to develop to its full potential.

I do agree that those kinds of visualizations are very helpful for getting a better understanding about how code works, because sometimes is very difficult to simulate like a computer how an algorithm is really working. 

We need to think outside the box about we do things on a computer, the way we interact, and keep fighting for ideas. 

## Machine Learning
AI that can solve many problems, 



[Return](../../index.md)