## 2022 04 25

### The Myth of the Genius Programmer

It's very common to think that those who have written very important pieces of software are all geniuses, that they have gone into deep states of concentration to achieve this, and when we as normal programmers try to do the same thing, we somehow feel that everything in the software development process must be perfect, and that we don't want to show our progress until our code it's good enough, because we´re scared of failure, and we have the need to hide it, when in reality it's part of the process, hiding our code from other people might lead to failure and it can have a negative impact in development of our project. 

It's fun to code alone, but it's better to write code with others, we must drop our ego and be more colaboratory. Also we need to know how to give and receive feedback. After we fail the most important thing it's to learn, the more you fail the more you learn, and with practice you're gonna become better eventually. 

I do agree with being a small fish, because it forces you to learn, if you are very comfortable with the things you might be doing you might not be in a favorable position to learn new things.

Projects should star well defined, so that other contributors don't take it into another direction.


### Perfmatters

> What you can **measure**, you can **optimize**

Performance turning loop 

1. Gather

2. Insight

3. Action

Time alone is not a good measure for calculating how efficient our algorithm is. The most impressive part about this speech was the use of the google chrome dev tools see the overall performance  of a webpage. Also I found out that web pages are actually very complex, and that's why sometimes they take so much time in loading. 

### Compression

#### Variable Length Codes

Using the principle of entrophy we need to make sure to assigning the shortest codes to most frequent symbols to achieve compression. 

The decompression part is tricker than the compression part, so we need to take into account the Prefix Property which states that 

> Once a code has been assigned to a symbol, no other code can star with that pattern.


#### The LZ77 Compression Family
We need to look at the adjacency of symbols, so that we can come up with a grouping algorithm 

+ It splits a string into two segments

    - Seen

    - Look ahead

#### Markov Chain Compression

+ Transitions between letters are important

+ These transitions can be modeled as a tree

+ Using variable length codes to describe transitions 

I think that these concepts used for compression are very interesting, because they revolve around the idea of representing data into a more space efficient form, with the flaws that it might have.

### The art of Organizational Manipulation

Managers shouldn't tell you how to do your job, they should be facilitators to make your job easier and more enjoyable. Employees should pursue responsibility, and everyone in the company should expect to be treated as adults, I think this is the right approach for having a good working environment. About unrealistic expectations we've seen in previous assignments that they have been manageable so far, specially when you receive help from others and collaborate together. When asking for forgiveness and not permission is something that's very hard to do, because we need to act by instinct.

### Programming well with others

Something that we as programmers usually don't learn in school are the social dynamics of working with others, that's a very important skill that we need to have in order to become good software developers. 

This is something that I have practiced before in school, generally I have been able to choose my own teammates, other times when the professor makes the teams it's more difficult, because you don't usually know how our classmates work, what languages they know etc. At encora I feel that the working environment with other apprentices is very good, all of them are very collaborative, and they are as helpful as possible with others.



[Return](../../index.md)