## 2022 06 06

### Weekly essay

This week everything was new, it was my first time working on a real world project, and it was both confusing and very exiting. As a team we discovered that one of the most difficult part was working efficiently and taking fast decisions. 

In our research for finding the right tech stack to use, we found out that we must take into consideration what's best for the business that we're working for, at first we decided to use the languages and frameworks we were more comfortable with, ignoring important requests for the project like the ability to be maintained for the opportunities pool developers, taking into account that technology in general has a very fast development and that sometimes we must rely on more established pieces of software.

Another important aspect to consider when developing a new software application is to take into consideration past experiences from developers with similar types of projects, their learnings from failures and successes is very important because it can save us a lot of trouble and guide us into the right path. We must also be able to get out of our comfort zone and challenge ourselves, and take advantage of current technologies and their application to save us time, and focus on the core parts of the project. We cannot assume anything about the project, is better to ask for confirmation.

Negotiation with a client is very important when it comes to software development, agreements must be reached, and sometimes it's good to lower expectations when things aren't going very well, always communicating with team members, planning ahead and calculating the right amount of time to develop each feature, we also must be aware that somme issues might arise while developing, so we must be ambiguous about some project details in order to have a margin of error so that we can have a better opportunity at fixing those problems.

When we are showing our project to other people is very important to give the right amount of context so that they can understand it better. It would be very rude to only talk only about the tech part of the project, since we must consider that people working in the project might come from very different backgrounds. 

Finally it's a very big challenge to work with others and coordinate every member of the team efficiently, as a team we tried to spend most of our time trying to include everyone in every decision, but sometimes that's simply not possible, so we're still experimenting on alternatives to improve our workflow, but even though we didn't have the best start, we already learn from our mistakes and we hope to improve on the coming weeks. 

[Return](../../index.md)