## 2022 06 13

### Weekly Essay

Last week I learned a lot about how is to work in a real world environment, the team faced a lot of new challenges like the presentation of a demo, we must be able to communicate to the client on how our solutions are gonna help solve the problem, also we found out that the requirements of a project might change a lot when presenting to a client, so we must be able to negotiate those changes in order to be able to deliver and maintain the right expectations with the client about the project. 

Reaching out to multiple members of the company showed us how to solve certain problems related to the project. We discovered that asking to someone with more experience than us could save us a lot of time in research.

I think overall we spent too much time organizing ourselves without seeing any results at all, so we must improve in how to be more effective when it comes to development.

I had the opportunity to work with react for the first time, I miscalculated the amount of time to develop the causes card component, so it's important to have some kind of margin of error when scheduling deadlines.

Finally we learn that it's very important in a demo to have a clear structure of what to do during the presentation and give a general idea of where the product is going, and take into account that some people might not have a tech background, so we must be as inclusive as possible when explaining pur project. We also must set expectations and not focus on the parts that we were not able to deliver, finding a balance between what we processed and the final result. We must sell the application the right way focusing on the positive aspects of our development and given less importance to those parts of the project that aren't finished.

[Return](../../index.md)