## 2022 06 20

### Weekly Essay

During this week I learned a lot about unit testing in general. I discovered that this type of testing can also apply to the front end part of a project, it was something that I've never imagined but it makes a lot of sense. I used the [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) for creating tests in some of the components of the project, and at the same time I found out about some javascript tricks thanks to my teammate Gerardo, including DOM-based matchers, and some tricky things about the language like built-in functions and the concept of array deconstruction. I noticed that I'm kind of bad at making time estimations for creating those tests, mainly because I didn't have any prior experience with neither unit testing nor react, but I always tried to reach out one of my more experienced teammates for help, that helped in solving my problems a lot faster that if I only relied on myself, before reaching out I always tried to make as much research as possible about the problem, so that I wouldn't make my teammates waste too much time.

There where a lot of learnings that came from presenting this week's demo, starting with the general structure, as a team we discovered the importance of planning those type of presentations, we must always present the functional parts of the software, so that the bugs don't grab the attention of a client. An strategy to keep control is to record the demo, this can also help to minimize the nervousness of the person who is showing the demo, also it's very important to give context to the attendees of thw things that are going to be shown at the demo. We should be more realistic about the scope off the project, since we've been too optimistic about some features, but we haven't been able to deliver some of previous proposals, we are still learning and we're expanding our vision, our most important mistake has always been assuming that the client is always right, and we must be able to explain  when something could be done a better way, or the negative implications it might have doing a task a certain way. Finally more team members should be involved in the presentation, the reason behind this is to not overwhelm a single person with all the stress of the presentation. 

[Return](../../index.md)